#LyX 1.6.8 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Share the Good News: The Role of the Lay Person in the Church
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
C.
 Schiff
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
But you are "a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people
 of his own, so that you may announce the praises" of him who called you
 out of darkness into his wonderful light.
 1 Peter 2:9
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you are like me you may find it hard to answer the following questions.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

What is the role of the lay person in the Church?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

How should I live a Christian life?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 When I attend mass each Sunday it is easy to feel that I a small part of
 the Church.
  is all about the priest.
 He is the center of my attention for much of the service.
 Even when I am singing, or collecting the weekly offering, or shaking hands
 with the friends and family around me, there he sits, in a place of prominence
 up near the altar --- and in my thoughts.
 (See 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:References"

\end_inset

)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After all, 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It may surprise you to 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
proper and indispensable role in the mission of the Church has already been
 dealt with in other documents.(2)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
apostolic activity of the people of God
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Called to Be Church — Evangelization
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This note doesn't print out
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(c) Pope Paul 6 sketched out a four-part plan for the laity in a speech
 he gave in Rome in 1966.
 First, the permanent task of the laity will ever be the insertion of the
 Gospel in life, by means of a personal encounter and friendship with God,
 and in communion with our brothers and sisters.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In other words, take the Gospel into your heart and into your life.
 Encounter and worship God on a daily basis—both in private devotion and
 in communion with others through the sacrifice of the Mass.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Second, the laity, in making themselves over into Christians, reform their
 attitudes.
 Being converted, they believe in the Good News and make it come alive.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As Catholics, we believe that we are always being converted.
 It’s not a ‘do it once and you’re done’ experience.
 As we grow into our faith we should reform our lives to conform more closely
 to His will.
 Instead of doing it once, we continually convert by bringing the Good News
 alive in our hearts and actions each day and with each hearing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Third, the laity transform the temporal order in which they are immersed
 by taking their own responsibility seriously,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Take what you do seriously.
 Under everything you do lies your primary, God-given mission—the evangelization
 of the world.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Fourth, the laity realize their human and Christian ideal in the world and
 in the Church by conforming their lives to the image of Christ and by bringing
 their lives to their temporal commitments at all levels: personal, family,
 professional, civic, socio-economic, political, and so on.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As we get closer to Christ—as we conform our lives to His will and His image,
 we need to bring our real life to the fore in everything we do.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To sum up.
 We lay people have a very important role in the mission of the Church,
 the mission of the evangelizing of the world.
 It isn’t voluntary, we take it on when we are baptized and confirmed.
 We are obliged to do it—and are a witness for Christ 24/7/365 whether we
 are consciously aware of it or not—so it is prudent for us to witness attentive
ly and with care.
 We don’t have to do it alone—we have our brothers and sisters in Christ,
 from all walks of life, to help us.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(a) Our mission is personal—each of us has our own different role to play.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(b) Our mission is communal—our mission is not solely an individual mission.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(c) Our mission is a work of grace—like the Sacraments, it is a gift from
 God.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(d) Our mission is ecclesial—it is the work of God and ALL his people.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(e) Our mission is apostolic—we are all apostles.
 We are the living bearers of the Gospel.
 We do not bear the Gospel through our words alone, but by being a living
 witness to Him with our lives.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
References
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:References"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
